[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Chris Hardy has
spent a lifetime of
research attempting
to understand the relationship
between what is considered
the divine and humanity.
In her new book, "Wars
of the Anunnaki,"
Chris uses repetitive patterns
in semantics to decipher
what may be a revolutionary
view of the story
made popular by Zecharia
Sitchin so many years ago.
Welcome, Chris.
I have to say it was really
quite a nice journey going
through your book.
It's a subject that I've
read through different lenses
many times.
But I think what
I enjoyed about it
is the language was
so alive and personal.
Even though there
are a lot of quotes
and there's a lot
of research, it
doesn't come off with
the academic feeling
that alienates people.
It makes a living story.
>>CHRIS HARDY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: But it begins
with a dedication.
It says, "To Martin Luther
King for the promise
he asked from me."
What does that mean?
>>HARDY: Aha.
You really put your
finger on something
that I wanted to
be a little hidden.
>>REGINA: No, it's not hidden.
It's right up front.
>>HARDY: People might wonder,
you know, what age I could be.
>>REGINA: You put it there.
>>HARDY: It was a very
interesting, but at one point
one day I had already published
as a first volume, "DNA
of the Gods," the second
volume is so much harder.
It took so much more out of me.
It was really coming
up with it was really
fighting with some
kind of shadows
in our collective unconscious.
And also I knew that
I was going to be--
I could not be going halfway.
You know, I had to--
>>REGINA: You had to go
for it and you really did.
>>HARDY: --let my
whole being say
and this is why the two
books have been written very,
very quickly.
And so suddenly I had
some kind of hesitation.
I was wondering
if I was not going
to shock religious people.
What would happen
then in my life
with my other
scientific research.
And I was in my car
coming back in the night.
And I could not move.
I was to my house.
I could just not
get out of my car.
And suddenly I
experienced a contact
with Martin Luther King.
And in this contact,
he talked to me
and because he is also
a symbol of somebody who
has fought for an ideal and
for the truth and for justice.
And it was so strong in me.
And he said you have to
publish the second book.
You have to.
And it was like
asking you to do it.
And I said, OK, then
I do it, I do it.
And then, that was it
with my hesitation.
I went with it.
>>REGINA: And so you found
all the resistance starting
to drop away to going in?
Because this was almost--
it almost seemed as though
there was an element of soul
searching in it for you.
>>HARDY: I have
done a lot of soul
searching because I started
meditation when I was 18.
>>REGINA: Almost collective
soul searching, I should say.
>>HARDY: I would say that was
more on the collective level.
Me, I was living like, first,
when I was young as an atheist.
>>REGINA: Atheist, OK.
>>HARDY: And then,
when at 13 years old,
I started to do some
meditation and to open up
to a quest, an inner
quest, for knowledge,
through meditation,
through inner states.
So I had my way very clearly
on my scientific research
on consciousness, a
theory of consciousness,
based on the systems,
the science of systems.
So I was OK.
But when I discovered
Sitchin and I saw
that all the information
that was there
buried in the Sumerian
tablets and what
it meant for us as human beings,
as a woman, as a psychologist
specifically for me,
you know, I said, no, I
have to go over this data.
I have to get into
it, study it in depth,
and I have say
something about it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you did.
I love it.
So in this particular story, I
think what was really bringing
it alive is you were giving
a different kind of voice
for the motivations of why the
characters that we've all heard
about-- the Anunnaki, Enlil,
his brother Enki, and so forth--
the motivations
throughout the book.
And we're going to go
through a lot of it,
certainly the
ramifications of it
all the way into modern history.
But the motivations for
trying to just squash
humanity, control
and squash humanity
was really quite
unconscionably cruel
what was perpetrated
against humanity.
And this is our place, you know.
Granted, let's start
from the beginning.
Other species have been
here, arguably as long as--
well almost as long
as the human species--
what became the human species.
Talk a little bit about
the beginnings of that.
So we set the stage.
>>HARDY: So beginning
from the Anunnaki coming
from another planet, or
the beginning of humanity,
the creation of humanity?
Their coming, you want?
>>REGINA: Yes.
Let's start with their
coming, because we're
isolating it to that 400,000
year period of history.
>>HARDY: Yes.
I'm going to try to be quick.
What happened is that in the
epic of creation, Enuma Elish,
they speak about their planet
being a nomad planet who
was attracted by
our solar system
and started being
attracted toward our sun
and started crossing the
orbits of the planets
from the outer ones all the way
to the inner planets like Earth
and Mars.
>>REGINA: Into our solar system.
>>HARDY: Yes.
And all the descriptions
we find in the Enuma Elish
are perfectly correct.
The more our science
is discovering
in different facets, you
know, the more our science
is getting more sophisticated
and the more whatever
is there as information
in the Sumerian tablets--
which I remind people
are 5,005 years old.
>>REGINA: 5,500
years old, right.
>>HARDY: Yes.
The oldest one was found.
But we still are
discovering new ones.
So we may discover
even older ones.
And those were the
oldest one start
with describe saying this is
a copy of a very ancient book.
So already, it was not the
start of their civilization.
They had everything already
in terms of civilization.
So they describe
coming toward the sun.
And they describe
also stopping on Mars
to replenish their
water reserves.
And they were using
hydrogen fuel.
And so water.
And they described Mars
as having a lot of water,
a nice place to stay,
and lush, visibly.
>>REGINA: Lush.
You say, and lush.
Green and lush, visibly.
>>HARDY: Green and lush, yes.
And so this is something
that has come up only
in the last two years
with a physicist
called John Brandenburg.
And he has written a book
called "Death on Mars."
And first he came
up with the concept
of a paleo-ocean on Mars while
they were, in the establishment
science, still arguing was there
water or is there water or not.
And what happened is
that this paleo-ocean--
>>REGINA: How do you say it?
Paleo?
>>HARDY: Paleo-ocean.
A very antique, paleolithic
ocean, you know?
And so we see clearly,
when we see the maps of--
the photos of Mars, we see
clearly the delineation
of the coastline.
And so it was extremely
easy for a scientist
to analyze the sediments
to come up with the fact
that it had been--
I mean you had a
very, very flat fifth
of the planet towards
the North Pole
was totally flat like it
was the bottom of an ocean.
And then you had, of course, a
very crispy coastline and then
mountains and valleys.
And very, very obvious.
And so was that was
about four years ago
in his first book in 2011.
And now in his new book--
I mean before he
wrote the book--
he came up with the interesting
analysis of isotopes
of that are nuclear isotopes.
Notably one which is called,
one is thorium and the other one
is xenon 129.
>>REGINA: 129, which is
known for what on our planet?
>>HARDY: It's known only
as a trace remaining
after a nuclear explosion.
>>REGINA: Weapons grade.
>>HARDY: Yes.
Exactly.
So you have it a lot
in the Nevada desert.
>>REGINA: The Nevada
desert from all
of the test that had happened.
They're finding
this on Mars, right?
>>HARDY: Yes.
Not only on the rocks,
but also on meteorites.
So the very important point
is that xenon 129 cannot be
a natural element.
You cannot find it naturally.
It has to be the result
of nuclear explosion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HARDY: So John Brandenburg
went further and also
was discussing and interacting
with nuclear physicists who
were kind of taken aback
but not refusing the element
of information that was clear.
>>REGINA: So science
basically rejected--
rejected the presence
of the xenon 129 or just
didn't want to
address it or what?
They were stunned.
>>HARDY: What happened
with the ocean,
the paleo-ocean is an indication
of what's going to happen,
because this is very new.
I mean they had to agree
with the paleo-ocean concept
on the data.
And they will at one point,
have to agree with the data.
I mean the isotopes, you know,
you cannot falsify the data.
>>REGINA: Right.
You can't falsify
the type of isotope.
>>HARDY: Yes.
So basically he came
up with the idea
that nukes were exploded from
high in the atmosphere over two
major centers of the Martian
civilization in Cydonia Mensae
and Cydonia chaos.
Near the coastlines,
those cities
of which we see the ruins.
Clearly for some people
who are sensitive.
>>REGINA: You mean like
psychically sensitive,
you mean?
>>HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes, right.
>>HARDY: And so they were
exploded from the atmosphere
to make a maximum of damage.
So now--
>>REGINA: So it essentially
fried the surface.
>>HARDY: No.
It blew up the
atmosphere of Mars.
This is happening 200 million
years ago, about 180-230,
so I took the middle part.
>>REGINA: But it created
an arid landscape.
>>HARDY: It just made
Mars a dead planet.
It just exploded the atmosphere.
There is still a slight
atmosphere on Mars.
But at that time,
Mars was like Earth.
It was lush, full
of animal life.
I mean you had great
vegetation, of [INAUDIBLE]..
OK.
So what we have to
ponder on is the fact
that there was a
war between species,
alien of course, alien species.
>>REGINA: And some alien
species and whoever was on Mars.
>>HARDY: 200 million
years ago, it
was so bad that
they destroyed not
only a planet, but obviously
a civilization on that planet.
So this is a matter
for us to reflect.
>>REGINA: So the
question becomes who?
And you start looking for
repeated patterns and why.
>>HARDY: Yes.
But this is very interesting
among all the incredible mind
blowing information that we can
find in the Sumerian tablets,
thanks to Zecharia Sitchin
who was able to make
interesting translation.
Like, for example, after
the new king of Palestine,
one of the goddess, according
to the normal translation
flew like a bird to Africa.
But according to
the understanding
that a bird means a plane
just like American pilots
they use I am taking
my bird to whatever.
OK?
It's the same in the tablets.
And so she flew in
her bird to Africa.
>>REGINA: Well, in my
own esoteric training
over the last 30
years, the beings that
have been wonderful
teachers for me,
when I asked them about some
odd placement of artifacts
in the world which shouldn't
go with that era of history,
they simply said, well, you
know there's always been flight
until very recently.
And even then, there's
always been flight
historically because we've
had advanced civilization-- we
were in fact, at one time.
But we've had
advanced civilizations
on this planet, really
almost from the beginning.
>>HARDY: Yes, well we have
mention of that in the old
ancient--
not only mythology, but
very important books.
>>REGINA: The Vedas,
as well, the Vimanas.
>>HARDY: [INAUDIBLE] in Egypt
with the flying machines.
So in the Sumers, they had three
of types of flying machines.
They had the bird, normal bird.
Then they had the swirling
bird which is a helicopter.
And then they had
the [INAUDIBLE]
that were the spacecraft,
interplanetary spacecraft.
>>REGINA: Interplanetary
spacecraft.
And this is all in
the Sumerian text.
>>HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
At this point let me
ask you a quick question
as we're starting to bring
the story now to Earth.
Zecharia Sitchin
has been credited
with the primary translations
of the Sumerian texts
through the cylinders
and cuneiform.
What you're doing
and have done is
you are using repeated
patterns in semantics.
How did you begin on that
path in analyzing more deeply
into the translations?
>>HARDY: Not the
translation but the analysis
of the text, translated text.
I am going to make a very,
very quick parenthesis
to say that first of
all, I'm a meditator.
I have an inner path of
knowledge on the research.
But I'm also a researcher
in consciousness studies
and I have been, since
ever, with doctoral thesis.
My first field of study
with parapsychology.
I was working in
preparing my thesis that I
passed in France in ethnology.
So I am in between field.
And my original contribution
is the semantic field theory.
Because when you are
doing a lot of meditation
and when you have some
sight, like I believe
you do, and I have.
For me, it was impossible.
I was coming back from
about three years in India
learning and learning on
myself, having been with masters
in Sufi master, a
Hindu master, Tibetans,
and remaining totally free.
But I had so a lot
of experiences.
And I knew perfectly
well since 18 years old
that consciousness is
an energy because I
could see all kinds
of things some thing
that were not only
mind on matter like--
it's not only moving
object or healing
for example, which is
bioPK, biopsychokinesis,
but whatever you know.
Even with telepathy,
which is just
communication at a distance
or clairvoyance, which to see
things at the far distance.
>>REGINA: So you were
capable across the board.
>>HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So you were
clairvoyant, clairaudient.
Were you able to perform
like telekinesis?
>>HARDY: Also, healing also.
>>REGINA: Healing also.
OK.
>>HARDY: Astral travel.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So you were experienced and
trained in all these realms.
And then--
>>HARDY: Then, I get--
>>REGINA: Further education.
>>HARDY: Yes.
First I do my masters
and I want to go further.
And I realize of course I
want to study consciousness.
And I realize that in the
field of cognitive psychology,
all those sight capacities
are not even possible.
>>REGINA: No.
Cognitive psychology
doesn't acknowledge.
>>HARDY: Why?
Because consciousness
is supposedly
only inside the brain,
inside the locale,
the space and time of the brain.
So nothing can
happen at a distance.
OK?
And then, at that
moment, I decided
I wanted to do a theory that
would explain site phenomenon
on the wall of the
mind, body, psyche
system, our consciousness.
>>REGINA: A theory that
would explain consciousness
at a distance so to speak?
>>HARDY: Also.
And also the capacity to get
into a meditative state, etc.,
astral travel, everything
that I had experienced,
I wanted to have a
theory that was coherent
with those experiences.
And so this is a
semantic field theory.
And to make it very
short, apart from the fact
that it can explain
what I said, it's
a theory that
views consciousness
as having a part embodied
in the body, related
to the neural level
to the body level.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
The neurological level
to the physical?
>> HARDY: Yes.
But also part of
our consciousness,
which Carl Jung is a great
psychologist, called the Self.
And all of the religions
called the Soul,
this part of our
consciousness, from me,
already in semantic
field theory is
a different dimension
of consciousness,
which is beyond space and time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>> HARDY: And it has an energy
which is not matter energy,
which is an energy
of consciousness,
which is able to
interact with matter.
So when I applied this semantic
field theory to the Sumerian
tablets, it enabled me to
see in a specific vocabulary
or a part of a sentence.
I could see what were the
values and the behaviors on even
the vocabulary, the kind
of way, I mean, ideal--
>>REGINA: Almost a
temperament, even.
>> HARDY: It's a
world temperament.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HARDY: So I was able
to decipher what I call
the semantic field, the
whole consciousness of one
of the protagonists and another
one to distinguish it with
another one.
So it highlighted the
fact that some part where,
much sounding much more
like the Sumerian tablets,
like two or three million years
ago, because the Sumerians,
it's very easy.
They don't have
the same morality
that we have at the
time of the patriarchy.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HARDY: They don't have
any problem with sexuality.
You have all types of sexuality.
The only crime in the
Sumerian civilization,
the only crime is the
nom-willingness of somebody
is rape.
Rape and murder,
whatever happens
in between two adult that are
consented, mutually consented,
is their problem.
And they change it.
They have no inhibitions.
You have all kind of
poems, almost sexual poems,
the brother with the
sister, oh my dear.
>>REGINA: And this was depicted
at what point in our history,
in the history of Mesopotamia?
>> HARDY: We are talking about
basically the events in Sodom
and Gomorrah, which are also
described in the tablets.
Because practically
all the stories
that are in the book of Genesis
are also in the tablets.
>>REGINA: In Genesis,
and Sodom and Gomorrah
is the story, right.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: But in
the tablets, which
are like 2 and 1/2
million year earlier,
we have a family of God.
Those who came from
their nomad planet
with King Anu on the planet.
>>REGINA: King Anu, OK.
>> HARDY: Yes.
And then the first brother,
Enki, the sister, Ninmah,
was a geneticist and the head
scientist in life sciences.
And only afterwards
came Enlil, who
was the second brother,
the second prince.
And he was given the
rulership of Earth.
He had a very, very unstable
kind of personality.
>>REGINA: Unstable, yes.
>> HARDY: Yes, very unstable.
And he started making great
problems with young women
when he was young.
>>REGINA: He raped someone.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: One of the Anunnaki.
>>REGINA: This was
frowned upon, obviously.
Didn't he go before a
council to be judged?
>> HARDY: Yes, exactly.
And he was nearly
exiled and lost
his title of ruler of Earth.
And then, that was when
he was already on Earth.
Because it was one of the
Anunnaki students of Ninmah,
the head scientist
in life sciences.
>>REGINA: So at
this time everything
was permissible except
forced sexuality.
>> HARDY: Except rape.
>>REGINA: --rape.
>> HARDY: Which he
did, by the way.
>>REGINA: Right.
>> HARDY: So to get
back to the tablets,
it was very clear when you have
this highly moralistic style,
and pushing the point
on the disobediencies--
>>REGINA: The what?
>> HARDY: Disobedient.
>>REGINA: Disobedient?
>> HARDY: Disobedient, and
they have to punish them.
And when you read
about the weapons
they have, like the holy stone
that disintegrates whole, all.
>>REGINA: Disintegrates?
>> HARDY: Yes.
The other one whose awesome
flash reaches to heave.
>>REGINA: Like laser
weapons, uh-huh.
>> HARDY: Yes.
Beams, the eyes that
penetrates all, the beams that
can see everywhere.
>>REGINA: So these
texts are laced
throughout with
descriptions of all these
what we would call
high-tech weapons.
>> HARDY: Oh yes, definitely.
>>REGINA: Yes, uh-huh.
>> HARDY: And of course, we
have the description of not only
a very, very complex detailed
description of the assembly
asking, specifically voting to
create a new species so that
they would have workers
in the gold mines.
And then asking Ninmah, the
head scientist in life sciences,
to do the genetic engineering.
And Enki's saying at
that point yes, we
are going to make a hybrid
with biped that I saw roaming
in the jungles of Africa.
So it's very, very
clearly described.
>>REGINA: And they
said they were
beings that already exist here.
So they were going
hybridized some of their DNA.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And ideally,
some of their intelligence,
by way of DNA, with the
human that was already here?
>> HARDY: Yes, the biped.
>>REGINA: Yes, right.
>> HARDY: With the
humanoid biped.
And so we find in the
tablet, the same sentence,
like, we will bind
a sense of life--
>>REGINA: Our genome.
>> HARDY: Our genome--
on the genome of the biped, on
this we will bind our image.
>>REGINA: Our image?
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So this
comes in Genesis,
we were made in the
likeness of God.
>> HARDY: Yes yes, yes.
>>REGINA: Now, let's talk
for a moment in this.
There was a council
initially, right?
There was a council.
And then Anu, the god, Anu,
sent his sons, Enki and Enlil
to Earth.
He gave rulership of the Earth
to Enlil, the more unstable
of the two.
One can only imagine
the politics that
may have taken place there.
But in this process,
Enlil chose to put himself
as the one and only God.
>> HARDY: Yes, at one point.
>>REGINA: At one point?
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And this is
critical to the story,
as it unfolds into our history.
>> HARDY: This is
going in phases.
Because first he's
the ruler of Earth
and he's abusing his
power all the time.
>>REGINA: Abusing power?
>> HARDY: Yeah, he's
starting to become upset with
the new-created earthlings.
>>REGINA: He said they're
becoming too much like "them."
>> HARDY: Yes.
What does that mean?
>> HARDY: That he's afraid that
we are going to, first of all,
he's afraid that we are going
to get too knowledgeable.
He's afraid that we
will overwhelm them.
But the most important
point was when
he tried for a long, long
period to destroy humanity.
Why?
Because he was a despot.
And Anunnaki, who were
not royal family, who
were working in the mines in
Africa, in the South Africa.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HARDY: Those revolted because
they were not able to have
wives.
They were working too hard.
>>REGINA: They were
being treated abusively.
>> HARDY: Yes. so at that
point is when the Assembly
of the Gods decided to
vote to make a new species.
But then there was
a second revolt
with Marduk, the
first born of Enki,
was the one to head space port
and all the space activity.
They had the space base on Mars.
Because when they came and they
stop on Mars to take the water,
they started building a base.
And Marduk, the firstborn
of Enki, for humanity,
finally married an
earthling, the daughter
of a high priestess
that he loved a lot.
So Marduk was the head
of all the Igigi, was
the special note.
Those who turn and observe
on the orbiting station,
on a space station on Mars,
and so this is Marduk.
Marduk was the God of Babylon.
But at one point, the
Igigi, the space--
>>REGINA: Space people.
>> HARDY: --space people, they
revolt because they are always
on the base on Mars,
on a base on the moon,
on the orbiting station,
on the space port.
And they have no right, they
no place to come on Earth.
>>REGINA: To be at home.
>> HARDY: Yes.
On vacation, they have
no wives because there
are so few Anunnaki women.
And so they revolt. And they
decide that the next time King
Anu and Queen Antu will
come to Earth for a visit.
And everybody will be invited,
it will be a feast everywhere,
including for the earthling.
And they will be invited.
They will come to Earth.
Then they will choose
whatever wife they want.
This is exactly what is
in the book of Genesis.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
And yes, the Gods married
the daughters of men.
So we have Enki, who
was more moral and just
in his treatment of humanity.
And we have Enlil, who's the
boss, who is a psychopath,
basically.
And now they start procreating
with women of the Earth.
>> HARDY: No, this the Igigi.
This is the Igigi.
So this is why I was
telling the story.
>>REGINA: OK.
>> HARDY: Is that at that moment
this part of the Anunnakis,
the space people,
they chose a wife.
They married them.
They had children.
And this is what starts the fact
that Enlil, the ruler of Earth,
is now absolutely
upset with humanity.
>>REGINA: Because they're
coming along too quickly?
>> HARDY: No.
Because he believes
that we, the Earthlings,
are spoiling the bloodline,
the Anunnaki bloodline.
>>REGINA: Oh, because we're
bringing down their blood.
>> HARDY: Yes, OK, gotcha.
>> HARDY: And you have
this, very strangely.
And I come back to
semantic filter theory
to show you you have, very
quickly, in the Bible,
in between the deluge and
the fact that humanity now
was considered, by the deity of
the Bible, to have "no soul."
>>REGINA: No soul.
>> HARDY: No soul, to be only--
>> HARDY: Animal, basically.
>> HARDY: Animal.
And then, at one
point, in the text
you have that they are going
to become as we are, you know?
Or you have the little
sentence and the Son of God
took, in the earthling,
whichever wives they wanted.
So we have small
parts of sentences
that are from the
Sumerian tablets, what
we can find in the Sumerian
tablets, the real history
of humanity.
And in the Bible or in
the book of Genesis,
it is in the middle of
sentences that are moralistic,
which I call
moralistic, and which
are putting the blame
constantly on Earthling.
While in the tablets,
the same thing
are recounted, the
revolt of Igigi,
the revolt of the mine workers.
But there is no blame
on the earthling.
Because how could we, the
poor little ones, not even--
I mean, the Igigi were giants.
You know?
If they want to get a wife,
it's not the poor earthling
who is going to say--
>>REGINA: Well, I've tried to
imagine that just physically.
But in any event,
on one hand, they're
blaming us for diluting the
quality of their bloodline.
And on the other, they're
angry because they say we're
becoming too much like them.
>> HARDY: Yes,
too knowledgeable.
>>REGINA: Too knowledgeable.
>> HARDY: Too strong.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So you
have both going on.
So you have this extreme
resentment of humanity
by Enlil.
>> HARDY: Only by Enlil.
>>REGINA: By Enlil, yeah.
>> HARDY: All the
time, from the time,
you have to remember
that Ninmah,
the head scientist
in life science--
>>REGINA: The sister.
>> HARDY: --she was living
with her half brother, Enki.
Both of them always
wanted to teach humanity.
They were the one to start
the esoteric knowledge.
I mean, they were
giving us sciences.
Enki started the first
university, the Sage of Eridu,
and Noah was learning with Enki.
>>REGINA: Was a high priest.
>> HARDY: Yes.
And Enki and Ninmah, other
one, to always help humanity,
want humanity to
be knowledgeable,
to be able to keep
going, to pursue--
>>REGINA: To continue
evolving, yes.
>> HARDY: Yes, the civilization,
once they are gone.
And they are the one to give us
all the tablets, the knowledge
in a very clear form.
>>REGINA: But
interestingly, your
write in the book with
Enlil, for example,
they weren't particularly
intuitive beings.
>> HARDY: No.
>>REGINA: They didn't
have that connection
that human beings have.
>> HARDY: No.
They didn't have
spirituality as we know it.
>>REGINA: No spirituality.
They would draw lots and go to
oracles to ascertain direction
for their future.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: That species
didn't have that.
>> HARDY: There were also, of
course looking at astronomy
a lot.
But whenever their
own judgment failed--
and we have to remember that
they were a human species,
a royal family.
>>REGINA: A what family?
>> HARDY: Royal, with a king.
>>REGINA: A royal human species?
OK.
>> HARDY: Yes.
And they decided, at one point,
to become the God's force
because they wanted to
give kingship to humanity.
So they started the
kings and the queen,
and notably, the 10
kings until Noah,
that was done by Ninmah,
even before the deluge.
>>REGINA: OK, so even
before the deluge.
So let's focus on
Enlil, because he really
seems to be the one that has
impressed our societies most
today, even with the election
of someone like Trump, I mean--
OK.
So Enlil, instead of
going from a council where
there are men and women,
now we have a solo male god.
And he proclaims himself
as God over everyone.
And he demands loyalty
from the people
that follow him, his
"chosen" ones, which
are the people he hand-selected
to take into the priesthood,
and to carry out
his own agendas.
Noah was one of
these people that
was a chosen person of
the Anunnaki, right?
>> HARDY: Mhm.
>>REGINA: But who was
that, by Enki, by Marduk?
>> HARDY: Oh, let me say
something very, very important.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>> HARDY: It's that when one
of the god becomes a chief
of the gods, but also when
Enlil decide, at one point,
to become the sole god,
and they wanted, now,
the religion to forget
about the world family.
I mean, everybody's crutch,
the mother, the father,
the royal family,
the other Anunnaki.
So they become now either
the enemies, so the devils,
or they become the
angels if they were
in the first clan of Enlil--
>>REGINA: But they're not
part of the original ruling
family or tribe, or circle?
>> HARDY: They do, They do, yes.
>>REGINA: No, I
mean, in history.
He changes history
at this point.
He paints a different portrait.
>> HARDY: But you have to
understand that when two angels
were sent to destroy Sodom,
they were just the son
or the nephew, you know?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: These were feuds.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And that's the point I'm
trying to get to here.
So let's go back to
the Pre-Diluvian times
and what happened.
>> HARDY: Let me
talk about Noah.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Noah is very interesting.
Because it's a line of king
that has been started by Ninmah
in her own town,
[INAUDIBLE],, and the 10th--
like we have the 10th
Patriarch in the Bible,
we have the 10 Kings and
Queens-- that's a difference--
>>REGINA: Different.
>> HARDY: --in [INAUDIBLE].
And then Noah is the 10th.
So he is already immensely old.
Because at the
beginning, humanity,
we have an extremely
lengthy life.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HARDY: Like the Anunnaki,
not exactly like them,
but nearly so.
>>REGINA: They were called semi.
The Anunnaki were semi,
considered semi-immortal,
they lived so long.
>> HARDY: And so Noah
is a disciple of Enki.
And Enlil is trying to erase
humanity, first with pandemia,
then with famine.
>>REGINA: Well, let's talk
about that for a moment.
First, essentially,
there was drought
and people were starved.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So he
attempted to alter--
and you say this in the book
and we know this exists today.
They had the technology
to alter weather patterns.
So the first track
is alter the weather
into a drought scenario
for a long period of time,
to starve out humanity and get
rid of them that way, right?
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Then the deluge?
>> HARDY: Then there was--
I mean, that was the last one.
There was pandemia first.
Some terrible illnesses.
>>REGINA: Diseases.
>> HARDY: And at the point where
people were going to really
die, Enlil is realizing that
there are still earthling.
How is it still possible?
So he convened an
Assembly of the Gods,
on the eve of-- of course they
want to be the most powerful
and to bend arms.
And they say to Enki,
what's happening?
How is it that your
people are not dying?
How is it that we still have
earthling all around while they
are sullying our bloodline?
>>REGINA: Sullying
our bloodline, yes.
>> HARDY: Yes.
And at one point,
he says, well, I
had to ask this God
to stop the rain.
I had to ask this God to
stop the crops from growing.
I had asked you to
stop the people,
to block the access
to the ocean.
So that the people cannot
even go on the fish.
>>REGINA: Cannot eat fish.
Right.
>> HARDY: Can't eat the fish.
And at one point,
in the assembly,
I mean, this is so all details,
this is very interesting.
Enlil starts laughing.
And he says, do you really
mean that you are asking
me to kill my own people?
And he was the one,
Enki and Ninmah
were the ones to
create humanity.
Enlil just ask the first
couple, Adam [INAUDIBLE],,
to come to Sumer where he
made the garden, to have them.
>>REGINA: The first couple,
that's the Adam and Eve story.
>> HARDY: Yes.
And this is why
we were forbidden
to do this and that,
and certainly naked.
While we were not naked
with Enki and Ninmah.
And now, so at this
assembly, Enki is loving.
And then the other
Gods, again, as usual,
give precedence to
Enlil and go with him.
And now Enlil say, OK,
I have another plan.
Because some scientists have
predicted that a huge wave--
>>REGINA: Tsunami.
>> HARDY: --the tsunami was
going to go over Earth and kill
everybody.
And we are going
to save ourselves.
Eyes are going back to Nibiru
or going in spacecraft.
>>REGINA: Because they
had the space port.
So they could go
wherever they wanted.
>> HARDY: Yes.
So they were, in fact, orbiting
the earth for the long length
of time of the deluge.
And he is the one
to ask everybody
not to tell the earthling that
the deluge is going to happen.
So that they would be all dead.
>>REGINA: All wiped out, yeah.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: As far as they knew,
from that area of the world,
they would all be dead.
That was his desire.
>> HARDY: Yes, yes.
And then he's upset
when he sees Noah.
Because of course, it was
Enki giving to Noah the plans.
So you see the
problem when you go
from a family of
human aliens that
have created a new
humanity, and then
you want to force this
story into a one-god story,
then of course you have
some problems accompanied.
>>REGINA: And an
angry god that was
angry with humans, that
tried to destroy them that
caused pestilence, flood,
and everything else,
to make the human
feel subservient.
Right?
>> HARDY: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
And then, for example,
in the Sumerian tablets,
Satan is Enki.
We have the serpent, because
it was his honorific title.
Like his own blame was the
snakes, the double snake.
His emblem, the caduceus,
will go to his son.
>>REGINA: But the caduceus,
the serpent was wisdom.
It always represented wisdom.
>> HARDY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: It was for
high-ranking knowledge.
>> HARDY: Yes.
And if you look, I
could not be astonished.
I've never read
the Bible before I
started to really analyze it,
the book of Genesis, at least.
And I could not believe it.
When I started,
reading is not enough.
You have to go in depth
and analyze and see
this group of word and
then this group of word.
In a sentence, for example,
you have definitely the god,
Elohim.
And then you have Yahweh.
And the new king of
Sodom and Gomorrah,
you have the gods, plural,
send the brimstone and other,
destroys the cities that
upset the Lord with--
excuse me, it's
not word by word--
with brimstone that
came from Yahweh.
And it's not the same subject.
And you have two subjects.
So you have a distinction
between the Gods.
And Yahweh is another person.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
again, all of these wars,
all of these stories
in the Bible,
had to do with factions who
simply were not loyal to Enlil.
And so they're cast in
the role of the bad guys.
So these acts are of a wrathful,
petulant, psychopathic god
that's simply hell bent
on destroying humanity.
So you have the story of Noah.
And Noah, it sounds
like Noah was
helped by Marduk, that
helped Noah to gather
not only whatever you might
consider as food sources
or seeds for the future, but
also knowledge, that books
and such were taken as well.
And they were also taken up, it
sounds like, taken into space.
So there was knowledge
that was saved.
There were foodstuffs
that were saved,
species that were
saved during this, not
at the hands of Enlil, however.
So that didn't work.
Here's humanity.
Voila.
We're back, right?
[LAUGHTER]
So now let's enter
nuclear weapons.
And then we only have
about 10 minutes left.
Nuclear weapons,
what happened there?
Because that's really
an atrocious story.
>> HARDY: This is the
most horrible story.
Because we have to
get into psychology
and realize that when
we were young, all of us
Christian people, we were told
that Sodom was a great sin,
sexual sin of homosexuality.
And now, you know,
I'm a psychologist
and I look at the
translation of the tablets.
And I see that in
the tablets, this
is absolutely nothing like it.
>>REGINA: Right.
So Just his enemies.
They were enemies.
>> HARDY: As usual, you have to
dig very deeply into the text,
having the tablets in mind.
And then you will
recover one part
of a sentence that is truly
saying what the tablets have
been saying all along.
Namely, in the Bible, you
have the War of the Kings.
The War of the Kings, as
Abraham says it very clearly--
>>REGINA: Abraham.
>> HARDY: Abraham
says it at one point.
And he says he's not
going to get into it.
It's a house of
Nannar son of Enlil.
Against house of
Marduk, son of Enki.
And he's talking strangely.
Nannar was against his father.
He was with Inanna, the
granddaughter Enlil,
the great goddess of
the matriarchal era.
And the warmonger, I mean,
she was the one terribly doing
all kind of wars.
And so the King of the east,
Nanna and Inanna, the Gods,
of course, they play
with the earthling kings
to send them this on Earth.
And Abraham stopped them
from getting into the Sinai
spaceport, where son of Marduk,
Nabu, on Marduk himself,
they were.
But it was also a sacred space.
>>REGINA: Why did
Abraham try to stop them
from getting to the spaceport?
>> HARDY: He was told by his god
to stop the advance of the King
of the East.
But not in a war-like way.
Even it was Pharaoh in Egypt
he went, with his wife.
And Abraham was a Sumerian.
His wife-- it's in the
Bible-- was his sister.
And he is given by the
Pharaoh, a cavalry of camels,
and he's going to stop
the Kings of the East
very near the Sinai.
Then, only 16 years later,
you know, there is a new--
I mean, Marduk is constantly
rebuilding his temple
in Babylon, so Babel tower.
They are both, all the clan of
Enki, Enki's sons, [INAUDIBLE],,
Marduk's are all
incredible scientists.
You know?
So he had the highest
technology, all this.
And he's always
rebuilding his temple.
And again, the Assembly
of the Gods send Nergal.
He's the youngest son of Enki.
And he's totally neurotic.
And he's the one with son
of Enlil, [INAUDIBLE],,
who are going to pour
the nukes on Sumer.
So basically, the whole
story of the new King
of Sodom and Gomorrah,
in the Sumerian tablets,
it's only they are
trying to kill Marduk.
It's the first time they
tried to kill an Anunnaki.
And it has been decided
by the Assembly.
>>REGINA: They have to
ready because Marduk
is in league with humanity.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: So they want him gone.
>> HARDY: Yes, always, yes.
So they new King Sodom because
they think Marduk is there.
They don't care about the
human population, our humanity.
However, it says
in the tablet, it
took me a while to
understand, that Anu,
when they decide
that they are voting
for the use of the nukes
against Marduk and Nabu
in Palestine and on the
Sinai, Anu says, oh,
but I want the
population to be spared.
And they said, but this is
so ridiculous, so stupid.
I mean, it means they
did not know anything
about nuclear weapons.
>>REGINA: But they use them in
several areas, not just there,
right?
>> HARDY: Yes.
Yes.
So what happened is that the
population he was talking about
were only the space people
that were inside the space
facility in the Sinai.
So because after in the
tablet it says, and the Gods,
they had to flee.
They nuked the place, and
they destroy the place.
One time they
destroy the mountain.
destroys the plain.
Then they destroy the
cities of the la, la, la.
This is in the tablets.
And they say, and they made
the gods flee from the Sinai.
>>REGINA: OK, now, so
the gods have fled.
They've nuked a number of
cities in regions and the people
with it, everything with it.
Abraham is still central
to this story, right?
Because Abraham was spared.
And they said, OK--
>> HARDY: But not
his nephew, Lot.
>>REGINA: Not his nephew, Lot.
But you can if you
can find 10 good men,
he could have 10
good men with him.
>> HARDY: Yes.
>>REGINA: But that means Abraham
was in league with this plan.
He knew what was going
to happen, right?
>> HARDY: This is a great
problem and it's very complex.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>> HARDY: And I would say
that you have to read through
slowly, you know?
>>REGINA: Was he aware
that the population was
going to be destroyed
and that's why
he was asked to gather people?
>> HARDY: No.
He was, in the Bible
text, he was really
trying to lessen the damage.
However, the whole
story between Lot, this
is another story, a very,
very long, long time after.
I mean, there are at
least three phases
in the writing of
the Book of Genesis.
>>REGINA: Very different phases.
Different authors.
>> HARDY: An adult phase, which
is a kind of moral tale that
does not stand up.
It's full of contradictions.
>>REGINA: It is.
>> HARDY: I mean, it's like the
angels say that the gods want
to save Lot.
They have not found 10 people.
But in fact, only
Lot's family was
Mars was [INAUDIBLE] people.
Then they send Lot to the place
they are going to nuke next.
>>REGINA: Right.
>> HARDY: Zoara, the town
of Zoara, which I mean,
Abraham was in Hebron.
This was happening in Sodom.
So Sodom, they
send him to Zoara,
which is in the mountain,
to the east about 30 miles.
Meanwhile, Abraham is only
50 miles to the north.
And he has a camel cavalry.
And 16 years earlier
he made all the way
to Damascus at top speed
to save the same Lot.
>>REGINA: So I guess
the question becomes,
if people are looking at
this, was Abraham aware
that the destruction
via nuclear weapons
was going to take place at all?
If he was aware, did he have
the opportunity, the choice
to rescue Lot or not?
Or did he choose not to?
Or was he not told
what was going on?
>> HARDY: The real problem
with the whole story of Sodom
and Gomorrah is twofold.
The first one is
the fact that it
was purely a war of the clan of
Enlil against the clan of Enki
and Marduk.
And they nuke a city
without any problem,
knowing that they were going
to erase the population.
Then the second problem
is the rendering
of this historical story into
a one-god patriarchal type
of text where there
is no historical wars
between brothers.
And the brother has
become Satan, the devil,
while he was a great
knowledge snake, Enki.
Do you understand?
>>REGINA: And he becomes
more of a devil, OK.
>> HARDY: And the story with
Abraham is not standing on its
own when you really look at it.
So it doesn't make any sense.
Because Lot is sent, by Gods'
mercy, is sent with his family
to the town in the east in
the mountains, which is going
to be nuked next, the same day.
Because when Abraham is
awakening in the morning,
he sees the furnace.
>>REGINA: He sees the smoke.
>> HARDY: Meanwhile, at
dawn, Lot is sent to Zoara,
And the furnace was already more
than one town, more than Sodom.
So instead of going
north, just let's
say, 1/3 of the way longer was
Abraham, his father, you know?
It had been his father.
And also, he was going to be
the heir as a high priest.
Because the father of Abraham
was a Sumerian high priest.
And Abraham was a high priest.
And he was going to
be a high priest--
>>REGINA: Lot was going
to be a high priest.
>> HARDY: --before Abraham
has some kids of his own.
And so basically, it
doesn't make sense
that Abraham, who
had saved Lot, he
had gone all the way to
Damascus with his cavalry,
just to save Lot, his heir, and
the next high priest in line.
OK?
And then he's not
going now to save Lot,
which is just 40 miles away.
Damascus is 160 miles.
And so it doesn't make sense.
I mean, already Lot'
family was 10 people.
So normally, the town
should not have been done.
And there are a lot of problems.
>>REGINA: So this is
hard to patch together.
But one thing that
continues, if we
look at it from a biblical text,
the story of Abraham and Isaac.
He was willing to kill
his son to please his god.
What kind of God would
ever A, ask such a thing
except a psychopathic god?
That's not a god that
we would recognize
as something that's giving
and loving and educative,
and so forth.
So that was already in
him, to honor that god.
And we have no time left.
We're over.
From there, we split into
the Abrahamic traditions,
the patriarchy
starts taking hold.
And tell that in one minute.
[LAUGHS]
>> HARDY: Well, so one minute
would be that strangely,
the Hebrew text, in my opinion,
was written with the story
of one god in order
to educate the people.
But it was done at
a specific time,
which was already a
time where sexuality
was already condemned.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Females were already sidelined.
>> HARDY: Women were
totally subdued.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>> HARDY: And obviously, Enlil
had always been against women,
against everybody, his
wife, he had raped.
He finally married with her.
So he saved his title.
So I believe that
anything that was
done, at that
point in the story,
those specific stories,
that were like, really
a shock for us, it was done
to make the humanity fear God.
And they thought
that they were going
to educate humanity by
fear, by using the lash
and to put all the
fault on the woman,
also, on the men and the women.
>>REGINA: It sidelined what
humanity was capable of.
It sidelined, even, our
intuitive processes and ability
to connect beyond where
they were able to connect,
and basically made humans and
women, in particular, small,
and raised the patriarchy
alongside it, right
to this very day.
>> HARDY: But this is why we can
liberate ourselves by getting
into those real histories
of what happened.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And I have to say, we've only
touched on like, not even
a percentage of what
you've written about.
But that was the heart
of the story I really
wanted to get to, is how this
story became perpetuated,
this notion of this angry
punishing god of humanity,
that took form as patriarchy
on this planet, which was never
how it was intended,
nor how it started.
There was always
male-female, there
was always that freedom,
balance, sexuality.
>> HARDY: In all
ancient cultures.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So with that, thank
you so much for coming.
We could probably talk for
six more hours on this.
Thank you, Chris.
>> HARDY: Thank you
so much, Regina.
>>REGINA: Words of
the Anunnaki Gods
is a wonderful body
of research for those
who are trying to put
their minds around how
the human species has ended up
in such a compromised position,
in terms of our ability
to think clearly,
and in terms of honoring the
differences between ourselves
and others.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]